Hello and welcome.
This locks are on to provide a solution to our previous challenge which was implementing the observer
design pattern for a cricket information.
So we're going to create a new project.
We're going to name this Our Observer solution
and the first thing we're going to do
is we're going to create our subject interface.
Remember the subjects pretty simple.
It just contains three methods.
It's going to contain a register in on register and a notify all.
We'll call this subject and it's going to be an interface
and like I said it's just going to contain our three methods register observer on register observer
which both take an observer as a parameter and then our notify all.
Something like this.
And this is gonna be implemented by the cricket data to communicate with observers.
So we'll put a nice little comment as a reminder of what it's doing.
Next thing we need to do is implement our Observer interface.
So we're gonna create another new class and we're gonna call this or observer and this is gonna be an
interface.
And this is going to be the interface epitomized by all the classes that need to be updated whenever
there is an update from the cricket data the concrete subject so we're gonna put a little reminder there
and we're going to just add our update method here remember the update takes three parameters to pass
the data the state data that's changing the runs the wickets and the overs something like that.
Our next step will be to create the concrete subject.
So we're gonna go back to our subject class and we're gonna say class cricket data
implements subject.
And this has to have member variables for runs wickets in overs and the overs can have division.
So we're gonna make it a flow.
We also need to have a list for all our observers we're going to make this an array list and it's going
to contain our observer.
And this is gonna be our Observer list and we're gonna make sure that we use the right observer.
So we're going to delete that and then we need to implement our constructor which will just instantiate
our array list by creating a new array list our register observer and our on register are very simple
methods.
They just add to the list or remove from the list.
Usually you want to do a check before you add so that you don't add the same one.
So we're safe.
Register observer that takes an observer
and we're just going to add it because we're just demonstrating the pattern.
But normally you want to have a check here.
So you don't observe twice we can say add and we can just say observer and then our UN register is pretty
much just as easy.
We override and we say public void on register observer taking an observer object.
And in this one we just remove it from the list that we saw observer list that remove and we pass in
the correct index would be observer list.
The index of we've got to make sure we have the right method our variable name so we just say observer
list index of.
And then we say our Observer
The last thing is we need to do is we need to implement the notify observers and then we'll add a couple
get methods that notify observers are gonna go through the list and call the update method.
So we say override and this one is gonna be public void notify observers.
And this doesn't take any parameters.
It just goes through our list and we're going to use an iterator to go through the list the array list.
So we're going to do something like this.
We're gonna say iterator observers it get the iterator call has next exit the loop and we don't have
anymore get the next one and then just call update on it.
So we say oh update when we pass and I remember verbals wickets runs wickets and overs
so that's nice.
Now we're going to add to get her methods so that we can get the latest runs and we can also get the
wickets something like that and those are just private member variables if we ever need to get them
which we'll probably do and our next method which is our data change method our trigger method.
So we also had to get method for our overs and these are all gonna be private.
So this will get all our overs.
And again they're just hardcoded I hardcoded the whatever I don't want to have to have set methods for
setting state variables the trigger method that we want to add that the client can call is the data
change method.
So we're gonna have public void data changed and this will be used to update.
So what we'll do is we'll get the latest data and then we'll call notify observers.
Very straightforward.
So then we just need to call notify
notify observers.
And that will be the end to our cricket data class our concrete subject.
Now let's create the concrete observers.
We need to concrete observers 1 for average score display in 1 4 are here remember what we need that
we need to current score display so we're gonna say class average score display.
This is going to implement our observer
and this is going to have a couple variables for our calculations for average score and they're going
to be called the run rate in the predicted score we're going to calculate these in our update method.
Right because now we're gonna get notified from the subject when things change and what it's going to
do it's gonna pass the runs the wickets and the overs.
So we get that state data that's passed that's changed we're going to then do our calculations on that
data and we're going to call a display method the display method is just going to output the data so
here we have our display math and all this does is print out the average score display with a nice line
feeds and then the run rate in the predicted score pretty straightforward are other concrete observer
is gonna be our current score display.
So this is gonna be current
score display and this isn't going to have to do any calculations it's going to implement the observer
and it's going to have some member variables for what gets passed to its update method and then it's
just gonna display those.
So the update is gonna set the member data call display which will output the data to the screen so
that we know our observed pattern is working because this would that would mean that this concrete observer
was notified from the subject.
So our display method similar to the other one just displaying our run wickets in overs versus our run
rate in our predicted score.
Last thing we need to do is we need to create our client we need to test this thing out.
So we're gonna create a new client and this is going to have to create a couple observers for testing.
So it's going to have to have a static void Main
and it's going to create an average score display and a current score display used for our testing these
are the observers.
All right.
These are the things that I get notified when we trigger a change.
We also need to create our subject.
So here we're going to pass the displays displays to the cricket data.
So we'll have to register.
So first we need to create our cricket data.
And we're just going to call it cricket data whether it's a new cricket data then we're going to register.
We're going to register.
Register the display elements.
And so we're gonna say cricket data that register observer.
We're going to pass in our average score display.
And we're also going to do it for our current score display.
So cricket data that register observer current score display now that we're registered for changes we'll
get them.
So we can trigger a change by calling data changed so we can do something like that then we want to
remove an observer and we want to see if that observer is going to get notified after we remove it.
So remember the data change will print out some information.
So now we'll also do a trigger to see if both observers get the data which is shown at the average score
should not be displayed only on the first date of change we should see both averaging occur on the second
day to change.
We should only see current score display.
So let's build this and try to run it to see if this works we'll run the client and we'll say run client
dot main and the output is we first see the average score display just some values and we also see the
current score display.
We do not see the current discord.
We do not see the average score display after the second day to change because we on registered the
average score display.
So this proves that our Observer worked and looks good.
Now again understand that if between the subject and the observers the subject is the data it contains
the register on register notify observer methods you'll always contain a list the list of observers
as has the call update on and then we have our observers which will just have an update method and then
it will have some of the same state data that is on the subject.
And in this case the update method gets called it does a calculation and then it prints out some information.
So that's the observer if you have any questions please let me know.
Otherwise thank you.